everyone in our family loves pierogi
especially when my mother who was always
known as big Martha in the family made
them and I work closely by her side
writing down her recipes so we would
have them forever and this is grandma's
recipe it works beautifully it is soft
it is tender she rolled it out thinly
she didn't make the puree too big she
only had one kind of cutter so we're
gonna start with the one large egg you
can just whisk so all right and then to
enter the one large egg few tablespoons
sour cream so it's not a lot it's just a
little bit but it makes a difference
there are some very nice froggy places
will go there some night with your new
boyfriend can I mention no no oh god I
always plan so 1 cup of water 1 cup of
whole milk and I'm just gonna keep
listening yeah and I can let your air we
just want it mixed well but not a lot of
bubbles and then flower Cup by Kaka
Roger gonna take this out is it now you
use it wooden spoon
all right course and then just let never
get lettuce in first and this makes a
wet sticky dough that um that has to be
needed for quite a while okay the next
cup can go in and did I mention it's 5
cups of all-purpose flour see how nice
the dough is but you okay no it's one of
us has to do the kneading so why don't
you do that put your put a lot of flour
on your hands and use the bunch scraper
like grandma did you she lifts with the
bench scraper and pushes with the heel
of the left hand yeah
left handle a yeah the only one hand cuz
you have to save one hand for the
telephone here and so now we'll take
this span start to roll it out so here
I'll give you an eighth rapid than words
so put some dough flour down here not on
the crack here
and you want to get it to be Oh
somewhere less than an eighth of an inch
thick okay thank you don't press hard
and this is a rolling pin so it's not a
prissy got it not going and this is a
ball bearing pin that's why I gave you a
ball bearing because it's not oppressing
it's rolling see how nicely it rolls
when you don't press too hard not
addressing anymore good now don't waste
any dough as close to the edge as
possible and they cut perfect rounds and
do a little twist yeah twist really hard
okay see how nicely it cuts it we always
had so much fun doing this next step
making the I call it the sweet cabbage
filling which is my favorite and you
take real cabbage my mom would go to the
store and ask for the old cabbages that
are dried out kind of desiccated and
then she would steam them in wedges like
this and just on a rack and a big pot
and then the hard work started this is
hard on a board wedged into the sink
like this you would wrap the dough so
now you squeeze here just squeeze really
tight you're going to get every speck of
water out of it oh my god key and that's
why if he's a strong muslin cloth or or
cheesecloth see how you'll see how much
water comes out of that and then you
push it on the board - yeah this it uses
elbow grease and okay so give me a piece
of cabbage so I can as if it's too wet
unfortunately it just doesn't work that
well so here that if here is this little
little piece of look at this shriveled
up steamed cabbage the meat chopper
actually chops it up so now you push
this through then chopper
they're spitting cabbage at you it comes
out a nice little pieces now whoever
devised this I will never know now this
is a half a stick of butter okay and
then look at this even supreme cheese
have to be in there uh and you think
that that's rich but you see how small
these dumplings are just just so small
little goes a long yes and you can eat
20 of them with no difficulty my happier
guys used to have contests on who could
eat them oh yeah and uh I did win
sometime that's terrible than admit lots
of black pepper very important to have
black pepper but see how this is not wet
yeah okay it's very important that this
filling not be wet and salt lots of salt
Wow there well that's a teaspoon yeah
and seasoning is important because
there's nothing here except dough and
cabbage so so now we have water boiling
also if you're gonna make these right
away here kind of use your hey and I use
mine and we're going to now use use
flour on your fingers just to make sure
that they're not gonna stick to the
dough and I had these covered with cloth
it's very important not to let the dough
dry out and just get all the flour off
stretch the dough a little bit not too
much but just a little and then Vanessa
just an innocent yeah and she asked
little spoon you don't want too much
filling but you don't want too little so
a small teaspoon like this is good then
you just did you tell grandma was doing
it in the picture so yeah you don't say
that's not God
I've never mastered that is exactly as
hers but but you pull these edges
exactly together let me sing oh you're
fast yeah
are these no I'm putting on a cloth with
a little bit of um so we have some
already made the girls were practicing
before we went on yes okay that's good
yeah but you know why do they work
salted water make sure it's salted and
we're just gonna drop these in and
they're done I'm putting yours in okay
perfect and don't put mine in and
Sophie's
and you wait and stir but if you stir
these don't stir with something like
this stir with the back of a wooden
spoons a handle just to keep them you
don't want to break them at all these
are all little tricks that grandmas on
me
look floating look how beautiful mmm so
they float for about a minute and then
you take them out yes let them cook
because you do not want the dough to be
undercooked okay so these are done now
don't just put the pierogies on a bare
plate always the front aground off put a
little melted butter on the plate and
you know let it let it go all over the
plate and then you put the hot gorgeous
pierogies mmm well drain on the plate
we're going to go into the kitchen and
eat all of these during intermission
with a little bit of melted butter there
to me to hope you'll see all those up in
here